2. Data Acquisition and Cleaning
2.1 Data Acquisition
The data acquired for this project is a combination of data from three sources. The first data
source of the project uses a London crime data that shows the crime per borough in London.
The dataset contains the following columns:
● lsoa_code: code for Lower Super Output Area in Greater London.
● borough: Common name for London borough.
● major_category: High level categorization of crime
● minor_category: Low level categorization of crime within major category.
● value: monthly reported count of categorical crime in given borough
● year: Year of reported counts, 2008-2016
● month: Month of reported counts, 1-12
The second source of data is scraped from a wikipedia page that contains the list of London
boroughs. This page contains additional information about the boroughs, the following are
the columns:
● Borough: The names of the 33 London boroughs.
● Inner: Categorizing the borough as an Inner London borough or an Outer London
Borough.
● Status: Categorizing the borough as Royal, City or other borough.
● Local authority: The local authority assigned to the borough.
● Political control: The political party that control the borough.
● Headquarters: Headquarters of the Boroughs.
● Area (sq mi): Area of the borough in square miles.
● Population (2013 est)[1]: The population in the borough recorded during the year
2013.
● Co-ordinates: The latitude and longitude of the boroughs.
● Nr. in map: The number assigned to each borough to represent visually on a map.
The third data source is the list of Neighborhoods in the Royal Borough of Kingston upon
Thames as found on a wikipedia page. This dataset is created from scratch using the list of
neighborhood available on the site, the following are columns:
● Neighborhood: Name of the neighborhood in the Borough.
● Borough: Name of the Borough.
● Latitude: Latitude of the Borough.
● Longitude: Longitude of the Borough.
2.2 Data Cleaning
The data preparation for each of the three sources of data is done separately. From the
London crime data, the crimes during the most recent year (2016) are only selected. The
major categories of crime are pivoted to get the total crimes per borough as per the
category
The second data is scraped from a wikipedia page using the Beautiful Soup library in
python. Using this library we can extract the data in the tabular format as shown in the
website. After the web scraping, string manipulation is required to get the names of the
boroughs in the correct form
The two datasets are merged on the Borough names to form a new dataset that combines
the necessary information in one dataset
